---
layout: post
title:      "Altering my code narrative "
date:       2019-01-22 10:52:35 -0500
permalink:  altering_my_code_narrative
---


   I've just finished up my Rails project and it's taken me down a very new and different path in regards to how I visualize code.  I started this project out just like the previous two projects but about half way through I noticed that I was getting tripped up by concepts that I understood in my head but that those same concepts did not resonate with me in my heart.  Since the beginning of this incredible/arduous task of learning a new language I always had this rigid robotic mind set of how things worked and that in order to make things work it had to be done a certain way and in a super precise manner which was silly and for me a rather unhelpful and not so enjoyable way of seeing how to build things with code.  Writing this blog has been extra special because working through this project has completely altered the way I interact with code and the stories I created around that code are now far more powerful, fun and creative then how I was previously envisioning them.      

    My first narrative switch was when I built my database and shortly after that I needed to rollback every single one of them and either drop some columns, add some columns, or wipe them completely out.  So as I was in the depths of my database I wasn't enjoying the process of repairing everything that was broken so I decided to pause easel for a bit (easel is the name I gave to my virtual box, it's a painters term) and I sat back in my chair and thought to myself, this whole process needs to be invigorating and explorative so I built this image around my database as an adventure into the dark and deep underpinning which propped up my entire project so it's as if I went spelunking into my database and I am dangling on a rope which allows me to spin around and access all of my columns, table values, rows and fields.  Once I got into that narrative it became an adventure as opposed to a task and that opened up endless stories to be told in regards to all aspects of coding.

    The second story that I changed occurred as I walking back through previous lessons and forming a stronger understanding of concepts that might not have stuck so well after my first pass through.  Previously I used to think going back into lessons meant I was regressing and that I was unnecessarily slowing my progress.  That narrative was changed to envisioning an old dirt road in which I could still see my footprints and there were some pot holes that I slipped in and some rocks which I stumbled over but I merrily skipped through various old lessons and worked back through them to gain a deeper understanding.  Once I felt like I pinned it down I didn't walk back to my project but instead I jumped onto my brand spanking new road paver and was freshly sealing the old dirt road behind me which was ragged and full of stumbling blocks and was not tended to very well.  Overall, being able to humbly revisit past lessons was a great learning experience and gave me a much stronger grasp of those concepts. 

    The last story I want to tell you about is one that I think can either plague or bless you depending entirely on how you view this highly critical component of coding.  This component is of course dealing with errors and the glorious messages they can bring.  As I was building this project I realized that running into errors was like running into a friend, they are there to help you and you can always rely on them.  In the past I use to see errors as something negative and that when they popped up it meant the next 30 min or more were going to royally stink.  I had many many encounters with errors throughout this project and I've learned to lean into them as opposed to pushing them away, that change in mindset has paid out in so many ways.  I've tried to keep in mind that the errors only show up when you do something wrong, they don't just come out of nowhere to tick you off, but rather they come in order to rescue you.          

    I know this blog might seem a little unorthodox and you might even be saying "well that was an odd/interesting way of recapping a project," but I just felt compelled to write about the various ways in which I've altered my views revolving around code.  I think we all view this process in an entirely different way and I simply wanted to open a window into how I interact with this environment.  I hope this helps others that thought you need to think a certain way about how to learn or build things with code because that is simply not true, you can do this in any number of ways.  Just imagine how stale life would be if everyone structured their thoughts and ideas around the same premise.....no thanks.  

    Just like any good story that's worth it's salt, it needs to tell you something, speak to the deeper parts of you and awaken something great.  Even more importantly a good story will teach you something about yourself and how to be better then you were prior to that story being told and the sweet sweet impact it had on you.
